And I'm looking what I believe is east into a beautiful, quiet, and I'm sure cool, backyard.
Getting ready to chat with Carolyn Adair about her experience.
I don't say conversation.
Her experience is here.
Carolyn, check your mic and say something.
Okay.
Testing.
One, two, three, four, five.
Okay, first let's begin with your giving a brief biographical sketch of your experiences before coming to College Station.
Okay, just quickly I was born and raised in Houston, went to Texas Tech University.
I wanted to come to A&M because in high school I knew a bunch of Aggies.
My brother was an Aggie and I knew and dated a lot of his friends and we had a good time together.
But it was all male, all military then, so I couldn't come.
So I went out to Tech and graduated from there with a degree in education.
I came home and got married the summer after I graduated to an Aggie.
And the second question he asked was, would you put me through my PhD?
So you can't say yes and then no.
So we agreed that we would move to College Station and I would go to work and help him get through his PhD.
First three years of marriage, it was a lot of fun.
And it was a small school then.
I was very fortunate to luck into a job as they were just opening the first ever university personnel office.
and became eventually after a short time became the employment interviewer for all of the people who wanted to come to work in all the job vacancies on campus to match the the two and and that was a lot of fun learned a lot about university and how it runs and frankly it was very fascinating that to to be in the middle of this city within a within a town really
I think then we had about maybe 12,000 students.
It was quite small.
This was when?
This was in 1962.
And your husband was coming as a graduate student?
As a graduate student, Ph.D.
in physics.
Did he have his master's?
Yes, master's from Rice and had been out working for a couple of years and decided he wanted to go back.
And where did y'all find a place to live?
We lived right off of Northgate, which was about the only possibility.
Small apartments.
It was really nice because it like was a bedroom and a half, so he had a little study room.
And it was on First Street, 507B, First Street.
I guess you never forget those numbers.
Played $55 a month for our rent.
And it was a little fourplex and all the doors opened into a central yard so we had a little community of other students and graduate students that became good friends and we still know most of them along the way.
So it was a very pleasant way to pass the three years.
I enjoyed my job very much, became fascinated with the university.
Then we were fortunate enough, Tom applied for a post-doc fellowship, National Science Foundation, and we went and lived in Europe for a year in Holland.
And he did some work at the Komerling Ones Research Laboratory in Leiden, Holland.
And that kind of sparked our interest in international travel and European history and languages and everything else.
At that time, we had no idea, but his professor, Charles Squire, was then head of the physics department.
And he invited Tom to come back for one year to be a visiting professor, and we thought that was a great opportunity to put down some, well, it was a great opportunity to look for a job from here.
Had no idea we would ever be staying.
To come back for one year?
For one year, yes.
That year lasted a while.
That year lasted quite a few years.
Had he worked with Dr. Squire at Rice?
Yes, he worked with him at Rice, and then when Squire came here, they worked together on his PhD here, so it was just a nice set of kind of interesting circumstances.
So you arrive at the time the great discussions about co-education and so forth are underway.
Well, actually, I arrived after those discussions took place and after the legislature decided that it would go co-ed, because when I was at Tech,
the legislature was working on that.
And when I arrived, a woman could go to school at A&M if they were the daughter of a faculty member, if they were the daughter of a staff member, if they had just taken their first woman in vet school, I believe, or if you were an employee.
So I had kind of two out of three of those, because I was a staff member and I was the wife of a student.
I think that was one too.
And I actually took a class while I was working in personnel, and I didn't enjoy it because I was so busy at work and tired at five and then have to go to class and study, and so I decided that wasn't a good way to... What do you remember in general about the local attitude about the admission of women?
Well, it wasn't a problem for me.
I never had anyone slam a door in my face or never experienced any of the things that I heard other women experience, never, throughout my whole time of going to school, which after that was quite a long time.
So when you signed up for that first class or any others, you don't recall any faculty member or someone mumbling about women?
No, never.
Not in front of me anyway.
They were very kind about it.
In working in personnel, I got to know so many people on campus.
I knew all the department heads and all the deans and everybody that ever hired anyone.
And so that really gave me, I think, a sense of confidence about knowing how the organization, how the university was organized and feeling comfortable with all ranks of faculty and staff.
So walking to class and dealing with a faculty member was just not a problem.
All right.
You said walking to class.
How long did you all leave over in that Northgate apartment?
Three years.
All right.
From that, I presume you walked to the campus that you didn't drive a car from
No, we drove.
Oh, you did?
Yeah, we drove a car.
We had some interesting experiences because I remember that I remember encountering Rudder's dog, the big bulldog, if you remember him.
And he was covered with paint because all the outfits would get him and, you know, paint their outfit symbol on him.
And I used to ask Tom to take me around the other side of the building so I could go up the stairs and not have to walk past that dog.
He was a funny dog.
He loved to jump in cars and ride around.
Wasn't he named Ranger?
Yes, Ranger.
We took him for several rides because he would get out in front of your car and start walking real slowly until you stopped, and then he'd run around and bark at the door and walk in.
You mentioned Mr. Rudder.
Do you remember any early personal contacts with him?
Not really.
In fact, as a graduate student, at the beginning of my PhD, I moved from, well, I was a graduate assistant when I came, let me go back and give you a little more history, left and went to Europe, came back, and for the year that we were
The year that we were going to be here, I went back to work in the personnel office and helped implement the Fair Labor Standards Act.
That was new coverage of universities.
Then I decided I got a, you may want to edit this out, but a man was hired to come in and take over personnel and he was terrible.
He wanted to do nothing but sleep and do, you know, and so it was very frustrating for me because there was a lot to be done.
So I decided to quit and go back to school.
I went back and started on my master's degree, was a grad assistant in the College of Education under Dr. Hubert for about two years and then I moved over to the vice president and comptroller's office.
It was called then under Dr. Calhoun, Mr. Calhoun, no excuse me, Mr. Freeman.
and worked with Bill Lancaster, who was their sort of budget planning, personnel planning person.
In that position, I kept a fact book for Mr. Rutter, and it was just all the interesting statistics that he might need to have at his fingertips when he wanted to make a speech or whatever.
So I really never saw him.
I would simply go in there when I knew he wasn't there and get the book and take it back to my office and update things.
Did he use those materials?
I believe he did, yeah.
Let's see, you mentioned Mr. Freeman.
Describe him as a personality.
Oh, he was a wonderful man.
He was, I really think, probably one of the foremost finance people in higher education at his time.
He was very active nationally.
i i really didn't get in too much of what he did but i had a great deal of respect for him and every morning i would scheme and take him a cup of coffee and we'd sit down and talk a little bit about about oh boards of regents and planning and bond issues and all that kind of higher education stuff that you really don't get in the class this is in the late 60s
This would have been in, yeah, the late 60s.
Well, Mr. Rudder is still president.
Yes.
And as far as you were aware, what were Mr. Freeman's responsibilities?
He was the system finance.
He was the system finance man, and I think he had a lot to do with financing just all kinds of projects around the system, investing all the university or the system funds.
That's really all I could tell you that I knew about what he did.
All right, and then keep... Okay, and then I was doing, all along those years, I was doing a lot of volunteer work in the MSC, and none of the assistantships that I had had up to that point were things that I wanted to do later on.
I enjoyed them, but it was like I'm not a finance person, not interesting.
I want to spend the money, but not work on making the money.
So I asked Mr. Freeman if I could move
myself and my money over to the msc because they had no assistantships over there and i'd been doing a lot of volunteer work and just loved it so i guess i didn't realize i was asking the right person and within a week an assistantship had been established over there just came about it just came about for me to go and work with wayne stark and to officially then have a position that would maybe
contribute to my resume in that area.
So I went to work over there and shortly after that the legislature pulled all the non-academic assistantships.
I think it was a brief period in time and so that assistantship disappeared and so they just put me to work by the hour and it was agreed that I would work, they would pay me for 20 hours a week no matter what.
So my paycheck was equivalent of a graduate assistantship at that time.
a half-time employee, but also a graduate student?
Yes, yes, but they were not necessarily related.
I just happened to be a graduate student who was working half-time.
All right, let's zero in on this man Wayne Stark.
Okay.
Make believe that I had never known him.
Tell me about Wayne Stark.
Well,
Uh, he, he started the MSC in 1950.
He was instrumental when, when all the universities were beginning to build student centers.
He was in that first layer.
And I think he had a real good vision of, of why a student union should, how it should, um, um,
combine the faculty and the staff and the students to become a university community that how they could feed off of each other and and use expertise and the students would would be the big winners of you know experiences from people that were not other students but other had other experiences um so i think he had a wonderful vision and i think he pulled it off very very nicely at this university we were blessed with a beautiful little building uh describe him by personality oh um
He was tall, very distinguished looking.
He was very outgoing.
He was very fatherly to all the students.
I mean, he would call them in and I remember he had a big leather couch in his office and that was like a sentence that you would come in and sit on the couch and you would get a lesson in how your future could be much, much bigger than you envisioned it to be and that you needed to
to enlarge that vision and he was big on travel.
He really wanted students to travel and he found lots of opportunities somehow for them to get involved in programs that would take them out of the country.
I understand that some of the students call that the green couch treatment.
The green couch, yes, it was green leather.
Not long ago I was mentioning that to some current undergraduates and some of the women misunderstood what green couch treatment meant.
I can understand that.
A few, including Fred McClure, told me that
the green couch treatment for him was a brief a lecture about how he could give more effort than he was giving you can do better well it was all about a potential and expanding your horizons and really pushing yourself to do some things that you never really thought you would want to do how did he identify those high leadership potential students
Well, they were students who gravitated towards MSc programs, and so a program like SCONA, of course, would draw, at that time would draw some of the best students in the university, and student government, student body presidents, corps commanders.
They're pretty easy to identify and always have been here at A&M, but he would call them in, and if he didn't know them very well, he would say, come in, we need to know each other.
And it didn't take him long to say, you know, young man, well, mostly young man in that time, you really need to do this.
And he would find money to help them get to foreign countries and do some things.
And he was just very fatherly and very insisting that they do some of these things.
How did, as far as you know, how did he react to co-education?
Very positively.
I don't think there was ever a problem with him that I've ever heard of.
He was really a mentor to me, and I learned a lot from him.
Can you give any examples of where he ever gave you any advice, counsel?
Oh, no, not really.
I don't remember anything specific.
We were so, the program was growing so much and he had so little help when I entered the scene that it was like, thank God for help, you know, and just go do whatever you think you need to do.
When I went to work for him, it was very difficult to get a position in the MSC for someone to work into.
So, but if you had a half-time job paid by the hour, or if you had someone, an hourly person, it was easy to get them turned into a full-time person.
So after about a year of working, being paid 20 hours and working at least 80, because it's not a job you can let go at, you know, at the end of four hours a day,
I went in and I said, Wayne, this is ridiculous.
You know, I'm working eight hours a week.
Let's at least pay me for 40 hours a week.
So then he went to Hannigan, who was the dean of students then, and asked Hannigan to pass through or to approve the requisitioning of a full-time position as a program advisor.
So we did that.
And because he went to bat for me, I have every reason to think that he really liked what I was doing and respected my work.
If Mr. Stark had ever had to rank the activities of the MSC in his preferential order, which would have been at the top?
Which ones?
Oh, I think Scona was number one.
I think probably town hall and political forum probably ranked second.
He was always real anxious to do the big name things, the things that brought important people in, not necessarily concert people, but the politicians and people in high places in government because he thought that was, it was,
good exposure for our students to know those.
And in the scheduling of these things, he always tried to make time for students to be there during the lunches or to drive them around or to sign the letters and always do all the planning rather than just be a spectator.
So I think those three and Great Issues was another one.
And really those were like the four, three or four top committees when I went to work there.
But we did have a travel committee.
We had an arts committee.
We had a committee that did what was called Host and Fashion at that time.
And there was a movie committee, cinema committee.
And so there were a lot of other smaller committees that needed a lot of help.
Now, surely you must remember some anecdotes about when something went wrong, when something just didn't turn out the way it was supposed to.
Don't you remember some snafus?
Well, there were always snafus, and
Some of it occurred because he was, he really let the students have their hand in doing things.
It wasn't like staff programming with students helping, it was student led with staff watching.
And so most of the snapus were little things that people, that the students just hadn't thought about, like a projector blowing out and not having an extra bulb in your pocket, like putting publicity out way too early and then it,
it came down or got torn down.
Or one of the problems was that sometimes the posters were way too clever, and people liked them and tore them down.
So we learned to slash them with a razor blade and then just leave them up there.
And when people tried to take them down, they kind of fell apart, so they left them alone.
Little things like that.
He was really big about taking students to conferences, national conferences, and having them in on the planning of the program like, well, while I was there, OPA started up.
And so he was real big on going to New York and some of the big showcase conferences and taking students.
We probably had more students there than any other school.
And they were in the decision-making seats about
who would come and the financing of all this and how we were going to how many tickets we had to sell and was it worthwhile and so the things that I remember going wrong were just little things and every once in a while we would have a program that would not be attended the way we felt it should and wouldn't make ends meet but back then
The MSC was like one big thing.
So if you had a failure in programming, you had maybe a little profit from the snack bar or from the bowling alley.
Or if you had a failure in the snack bar and you made money somewhere else, you know, so all of that could sort of come as an effort to finance this whole thing.
And after so many years, because somebody saw that as not a good management thing, it began to be split apart.
And so eventually, he was left with only the programming and the Student Finance Center, which was the operation of student organizations, and the Student Programs Office.
Who are some of the greatest, in terms of their fame, the greatest people that were here?
People that came here?
Well, of course, I remember Bob Hope.
He came.
He did a great concert.
Towards the end of Wayne's, maybe even after he left, it was George Strait.
And I was there, and the student, the black community, so I couldn't do anything.
Oh, and the light comes on.
That's good.
Make sure I'm on over here.
I think I am.
We were interrupted by... Technical failure.
Technical failure because the professional who put the batteries in put one in wrong.
So, Dean Hannigan retires soon after Jack Williams came.
First, what was your impression of Jack Williams?
Okay.
A scholar, not a retired general, but a scholar.
Very bright, lots of appeal to the faculty.
Nice guy, easy going, very likable.
Students really liked him.
What did the students like about him?
I think that he was so direct and easygoing and he was willing to be there if they needed him.
His forte was not students, but he did a good job of making them think that it was, I thought.
What about those notes?
Well, the notes were wonderful.
The little short thank you notes, personal thank you notes, thanking you for something that you didn't even know you did sometime.
They were such a morale builder to think that the president of the university would notice something like that.
He was a master at short notes.
One-liners just did a great job.
And I think he made a lot of people feel like what they were doing was important.
For both Mr. Rudder and Dr. Williams, do you remember any personal foibles, things they really didn't like or things they really did like, pet peeves, pet likes?
No, I don't think I was close enough to either one of them to know some of those.
Perhaps if I'd worked in their office or somebody like Nelda probably has a whole long list of them.
Yeah, I got to work on Nelda to see if she'll do an interview.
Oh, surely she will.
General Hannigan retires, and there's a search for a new... Search for a newly elevated position.
I think that Williams realized that we were coming into this enrollment, lots more needed to be done for students, for the non-military side of students, and he needed a person to take off and do all of that for him.
Am I correct that we named it at first Student Services?
Yes, it was Student Services, as long as John Colvis was here.
which was 20-ish years, and only when Malin came in did he decide to change the name, and I'm not sure why he did that.
There were some comments that came from the president's provost area that we were probably the only school that called it student services.
Now, we faculty members heard a
Rumor, probably not factual, that some board member had said, since our students didn't have affairs, that we weren't going to have a vice president for student affairs.
I never heard that.
We said that a lot.
Right now, you said that your husband, Tom, was on the screening committee.
Do you remember his... I don't know that he was on the screening committee, but he was assistant to the president at that time, and so he was privy to the search information.
Do you remember any of his first impressions of this new man, John Colvis?
Just that he was an incredibly warm, friendly, nice person.
Okay.
Now, when do you go over full-time?
Okay, I was working in the MSC full-time at this point, and I had, I think I was making $8,800 a year, which was fine with me, 12 months.
John Coldest came and I heard news that there was a new vice president.
I don't think I had ever seen him or met him or anything.
And one day he walked into my office, in the student program's office.
He walked into my office and he shut the door.
My door was never shut.
He shut the door and I had met him, I guess, and he said, you know who I am and that I am planning out a new division of student services.
There's a lot that needs to be done for students and to be done in the future.
And he had this organization chart and he rolled it out on my desk.
And he went through the different, you know, people and positions, directors of this, directors of that, and there was this empty box, and it was called Director of Student Activities.
And he said, I have added this position,
And I wanted to do several things.
I want someone to take care of all the student organizations that are not MSC committees.
I want someone to publish some important things that we need for the division.
I want to start some leadership programs.
I think those were the three that he laid out.
And he said, I would really like for you to consider taking this position.
I almost fell out.
I was absolutely shocked.
and so he said I know you're leaving on a vacation tomorrow and when you come back you can give me your response and also I want you to tell me what you think you should be paid I was clueless and as I said I was totally happy with my $8,800 a year so I went off on vacation and of course it ruined my vacation
Because I thought and thought and I thought, you know, do you really want to leave a job that you love and you're happy in to do this other stuff?
So I came back and I said, well, you actually, you made me an offer I can't refuse.
There are a lot of things that I think need to be done that I'd like to do.
And I think you should pay me $18,000 a year.
And he said, great.
17-5 is the number I had in mind.
And he said, after you do the things that I need you to do, you can do whatever else you think is important.
But, he said, during the next year or so, you will get your PhD.
And I said, I didn't say it, but that was exactly the footprint that I needed in my rear end to get me going again.
So I said, okay.
I said, when does all this happen?
September 1.
What year is this?
I want to say, I can never remember this year.
I want to say it was 73 or 74.
That would be my guess.
Something in there.
You can find out when his position was effective.
And it was the following.
I mean, he came and he laid all this out, studied it a year, and then he put it, he implemented it.
And I think I was the last person to, the last box to fill.
There were some boxes that he wanted, but they weren't in our division, which eventually came in.
Student financial aid eventually came in.
And...
I don't know what else I'll probably think of as we go.
So I'll never forget, we had our first staff meeting.
Is it working?
We had our first staff meeting and it was like before we all, you know, we all knew we were gonna do this.
If you've ever felt a motion of the world spin, someone asked, Dr. Colvis, when is all this effective?
And he said, it is effective right now.
And we all just went boom, you know, we sort of fell into this new chair.
And that's where it all started.
Now who, you reported, your title was Director of Student Activities.
Yes.
You reported to Vice President Colvis.
Directly to Colvis.
Who were the other key people that reported to him at the time?
Okay, Wayne Stark reported to him as Director of MSC.
Charlie Powell reported to him as like the dean of students, more or less.
He had housing and he had discipline.
The commandant reported to him, I believe, at that time.
Toby Reeves was the dean of women, and she reported to him, or actually,
Yeah, I'm not sure she reported through Charlie to him, and Ron Blatchley was like, Dean of Men reported through, but they were, the three of them were there at that meeting, I remember that.
The director of the health center was there, and the director of counseling came on board.
Director of the health center was, it was before Claude Goswick, because I think he was hired a little later, but maybe not.
Was Austin Curley the counseling center?
I think Austin, no, he was not counseling center.
He hired Wade right away to come down and do counseling center from East Texas.
I believe Wade was at East Texas.
Let me think what else.
We didn't have financial aid.
We didn't have...